# FirstDevProject
This repository will hold the development work I did for a potential front-end user interface program accessing an Microsoft Access database. The work was done between October 2003 to May 2006.

BACKGROUND ON THE DATABASE PROJECT

The development project started off with the Access database. The database was the main/beginning part of a requirement for an electronic information system. The requirement was one of several fundamental requirments of for Initial Accrediation of the former NCATE/National Accrediation of Teacher Education accrediation. NCATE is CAEP/the Council for The Accrediation for Educator Preparation, as NCATE merged with another educator organization.
 
NCATE, now CAEP is a non-governmental organization that colleges and universities in the United States and its territories can have their teacher education programs. 
The accrediation process for colleges and universities to get Initial Certification is a five year process, where at the end of the five year process the insititution has a visit by an accrediation group. 

DESCRIPTION OF THE DATABASE & FRONT-END USER INTERFACE PROGRAM
THE ACCESS DATABASE

The database is a requirement of the NCATE accrediation section (and I assume as well as the CAEP accredidation) dealing data that is both generated by and recieved by a teacher educaton/preparation program. The data include snstatistical, student, faculty and test information among other types of data. Those kinds of information are usually in paper form. The requirement is that the information be transferred to an electronic information system to manipulate the data and as a storage system for the data as well. 

The project started with just the database at first. The database that would be the eventual database developed came from a very basic database I came up with from discussions I had with the faculty member who would eventually be my direct supervisor in the Teacher Education program.  When I was hired at the college going through Initial Accrediation it was year three of the five year process. Due to time constraints of having less than two years to develop a working database system, I used the RAD/Rapid Application Development method to develop the database.The RAD method was suited to the situation as the college is a small liberal arts college and the number of students who major yearly in a teacher education major is very small. Because the database also needed to be used right away is another reason why the RAD method was suited to the specific situation as there was no previous database system that was development to use and/or modify. 

I will add more detailed information about the database in the future.

THE FRONT-END USER INTERFACE PROGRAM

The front-end user interface was an idea that I thought of I think approxmiately 12 months after work on the database started. The idea for the front-end user interface was to eventually allow the faculty in the teacher education program and possibly the faculty of the Division of Education, the academic division the Teacher Education program falls under would be able to use the database. 

The front-end user interface was developed using the Visual BASIC programming language in the Visual Studio 6.0 IDE. THe user interface design was based on the Access database as far as its function. The actual look of the user interface program was based on both the forms of the Access database and ideas used from another database system developed and created for use in the College of Education at James Madison University. The user interface program used to access the JMU database was created using VBScript using Visual BASIC for Applications. 

As I worked on the VB/Visual BASIC interface I knew that I wwanted to eventually use a front-end user interface developed in Java. I started work on the future Java upgrade to the VB front-end. The look of the Java user interface would have been nearly identical to the VB user interface.

I will add more information about the front-end user interface in the future. 
